At higher impedance levels, both Ruthroff and Guanella trans-
formers require many more turns in order to isolate the input from the
output and thus discourage the unwanted conventional currents. Further,
the spacing between the wires has to be greater in order to achieve the
higher characteristic impedances. Eventually, one just runs out of room
ona toroid, It becomes physically impossible to wind a high-impedance
transmission line transformer with a sufficient number of turns to meet
the low-frequency requirement and still have enough space between
adjacent tums so as not to lower the characteristic impedance. This
situation is made especially difficult when high efficiency is required,
since only low-permeability ferrites can be used. Rod core transformers
are out of the question in high-impedance applications because of their
inability to meet any practical low-frequency requirement.

This chapter, which describes transformer parameters for high-
impedance applications, provides the following: (A) curves of actual
data on characteristic impedance v spacing and size of wire, (B) a
technique using series transformers where a canceling of reactive com-
ponents occurs, and (C) reviews of the work of others on long transmis-
sion lines and variable characteristic impedance lines.

Sec 5.2 High-Impedance Limitations

Ruthroff and Guanella stated that for the maximum high-fre-
quency response of a 1:4 transformer, the characteristic impedance of
the coiled transmission line should be one-half the output resistance and
twice the generator resistance (Figs 1-2 and 1-3). This results in a flat
line since the transmission line is effectively terminated in its charac-
teristic impedance. It is good design practice to try to construct trans-
mission lines that are within 10% of the optimum value. As shown in
Fig 1-4 for the Ruthroff transformer, the transmission properties are
little affected by Zp being off by 10% from the optimum value. For a
Guanella transformer, the input impedance, which does not have the
sharp cutoff shown in Fig 1-4, would only vary between +10% (neglect-
ing parasitics).

At the low-frequency end, design considerations focus on the
reactance of the coiled transmission line as compared to the impedance
level (and hence, the characteristic impedance of the windings). Eqs 2-3
and 2-4 show that if the reactance of the coiled transmission line is only
5 times larger than the generator impedance, Rg, a loss of only 1%
occurs. Good design practice requires this reactance to be even greater

5-2 Chapter 5
