Foreword to the 4th Edition

Jerry Sevick’s contributions to our collective knowledge of trans-
mission line transformers cannot be measured. His work is the finest
example I know of solid theory combined with extensive experimental
verification and development of practical circuits.

Four years ago, Jerry took the time to get involved in “real-world”
engineering one more time. He held consulting jobs and was a highly
sought-after speaker. Partly in preparation for those activities and part-
ly as a result of them, he wrote several papers and a monograph intend-
ed as a short book on this subject. Although much of this work was a
review of concepts already contained in earlier editions, Jerry had gath-
ered enough new information and observations to add two new chapters
to Transmission Line Transformers.

A recurring topic in my conversations with Jerry during his time of
renewed activity was the lack of understanding of how transmission line
transformers work. Many people, Jerry observed, did not look deeply
enough into the subject to clearly grasp the differences between con-
ventional and transmission line transformer operation. Understanding
this difference, however, is essential for understanding the additional
chapter on equal-delay transformers I have written for this 4th edition.
It is not possible to understand the series-parallel combinations of trans-
mission lines in this family of transformers without taking the time to
learn and appreciate the theoretical part of Jerry’s work.

The new chapter shows how the work of Ruthroff and Guanella has
been expanded to achieve a wider range of transformation ratios in both
balun or unun configurations. This topic, not commonly known when
Jerry wrote the earlier editions of this book, is now included as a logi-
cal extension of the concepts he presented earlier.

There was no need to change any part of the previous edition; this
new material and Jerry’s additional contributions follow an unchanged
reprint of the third edition.

Gary A. Breed, KDAY
President
Noble Publishing Corporation
