transmission lines to form a choke that would reduce the undesired
mode in balanced-to-unbalanced matching applications. Before this
time, this type of device, known as a balun, was constructed from
quarter- or half-wavelength transmission lines and, as such, had very
narrow bandwidths. By combining coiled transmission lines in parallel-
series arrangements, he was able to demonstrate broadband baluns with
ratios of 1:n*, where n is the number of transmission lines. Other writers
followed with further analyses and applications of the balun transformer
introduced by Guanella (refs 2-8). In 1959, Ruthroff published another
significant work on this subject (ref 9). By connecting a single trans-
mission line such that a negative or a positive potential gradient existed
along the length of the line, he was able to demonstrate a broadband 1:4
balun or unun (unbalanced-to-unbalanced) transformer. He also intro-
duced in his paper the hybrid transformer. Many extensions and appli-
cations of his work were published and are included in the reference list
(refs 10-28).

In a general comparison, it can be said that the transmission line
transformer enjoys the advantage of higher efficiency, greater
bandwidth and simpler construction. The conventional transformer,
however, remains capable of dc isolation. The purpose of this chapter
is twofold: to review Guanella’s and Ruthroff’s approaches to the
analysis and understanding of these new wide-band transformers, and
to present additional material to form a basis for the chapters that follow.

Sec 1.2. The Basic Building Block

The single bifilar winding, shown in Fig 1-1, is the basic building
block for the understanding and design of all transmission line trans-
formers. Higher orders of windings (trifilar, quadrifilar and so on) also
perform in a similar transmission-line fashion and will be discussed in
Chapter 7, which treats the subject of fractional-ratio transformers.

The circuit of Fig 1-1 can perform four different functions de-
pending upon how the output load, Ri, is grounded. The functions are:
(A) a phase-inverter when a ground is connected to terminal 4, (B) a
balun when the ground is at terminal 5 or left off entirely (a floating
load), (C) a simple delay line when a ground is at terminal 2, and (D) a
“boot-strap” when +V, is connected to terminal 2, The operation of
these four functions can be explained by simple transmission line theory
and the choking reactance of the transmission lines. This choking
reactance, which isolates the input from the output, is usually obtained

1-2. Chapter1
