sensitive to impedance levels; they are designed for either high- or
low-impedance applications; (2) The high-impedance design (which
can mean impedances of only 300 to 400 Q) is by far the more difficult
to construct just because of size limitations; a 50:200-Q unun requires
twice the number of turns of a 12.5:50-Q unun for the same low-fre-
quency response; (3) ‘For high-efficiency operation, low-permeability
ferrites (100 to 300) are to be used; and (4) Rod transformers, even in
the Ruthroff method, can find extensive use in the 1.5- to 30-MHz range
when used in low-impedance applications; the rod transformer gener-
ally requires twice the number of turns of a toroidal transformer.

The purpose of this chapter is to provide many examples of these
1:4 unun designs. In many cases, the ferrite rods used in these examples
came from AM loop-stick antennas and filament chokes from Class-B
linear amplifiers. These can be found in many flea markets and Amateur
Radio junk boxes. These rods generally have a permeability of 125 and
are ideal for this use. The toroids in these designs came from many
manufacturers. Generally, all of the ferrite materials (with the proper
permeability) from the various suppliers have been found to be accept-
able. The choice should be made on the basis of availability and price.
The one exception is the 4C4 material from Ferroxcube. It is the hardiest
of all the ferrites tested by the author and is recommended in applica-
tions where damage can come from very high impedances, such as those
experienced in antenna tuners. In this case, the magnetizing inductance
can become a part of the resonant circuit, thus creating a damaging high
flux density in the core.

Sec 6.2 Schematics and Pictorials

Fig 6-1 shows the schematics and pictorials for the 1:4 unun
transformer using the single transmission line in the Ruthroff design.
The schematics show the generators at the low-impedance side in a
step-up operation. Since these transformers are linear and bilateral, the
generators could just as well have been placed on the high side (on the
right) in a step-down operation. The main consideration is that the
characteristic impedance, Zo, of the coiled transmission line is one-half
the value of the high-impedance side and twice the value of the low-im-
pedance side. A coaxial cable representation is not included, but can be
readily understood from pictorials (C) and (D). Many photographs
shown throughout the text will also help in visualizing the various
windings and connections.

6-2 Chapter 6
