B) Balun

By connecting a ground to terminal 5, a negative potential gradi-
ent -(V, — V2/ 2) is established from terminal 3 to 4 and -V2/2 from
terminal 1 to 2. With a matched load, V; = V2 and the output is
balanced to ground. When the reactance fails to be much greater than
R,, conventional transformer current will flow and eventually, with
decreasing frequency, the input impedance approaches R, / 2. When
the load is “floating,” the currents in the two windings are always
equal and opposite. At very low frequencies, where the reactance of the
windings fails to be much greater than Ri, the isolation of the load is
inadequate to prevent conventional transformer current (which could be
an antenna current) when the load is elevated in potential. This bifilar
balun, which was first proposed by Guanella (ref 1), is completely
adequate for most 1:1 balun applications when the reactance of the
windings (or beaded straight transmission lines) is much greater than
RL.

C) Delay Line

By connecting the ground to terminal 2, the potential gradient
across the bottom winding is zero. With a matched load, the gradient
across the top winding is also zero. Under these conditions, the longi-
tudinal reactance of the windings plays no role. The transmission line
simply acts as a delay line and does not require winding about a core or
the use of ferrite beads. This delay function plays a most important role
in obtaining the highest frequency response in unbalanced-to-unbal-
anced transformers.

D) Boot-Strap

Probably the most unlikely circuit schematic with the basic build-
ing block is the one where +V, is also connected to terminal 2 (that is,
terminal 3 is connected to terminal 2). By this type of connection, a
positive potential gradient of V, is established across the bottom wind-
ing and of +V>2 across the top winding. When the bottom of Ry is
connected to ground, instead of to terminal 2, a voltage of (V; + V2)
exists across its terminals. This “boot-strap” connection, in which the
transmission line shares a part of the load, is the way Ruthroff (ref 9)
obtained his 1:4 unbalanced-to-unbalanced transformer.

1-4 Chapter 1
