cores, and the other, adding in series an additional 1:1 balun for isola-
tion. With two grounds, one at terminal 1,5 and the other at terminal 2,
it is apparent that a short-circuit exists on winding 1-2 and, hence, also
on winding 3-4. If a single core is used, windings 5-6 and 7-8 are also
shorted and the low-frequency response is very poor and generally
unacceptable. With two separate cores, the inductances of windings 5-6
and 7-8 (which are in series-aiding) determine the low-frequency re-
sponse. Windings 1-2 and 3-4 only act as a delay line. As was explained
before with the basic building block, since no potential difference exists
between the input and output terminals of the bottom transmission line
in Fig 1-2, the core is no longer needed and can be replaced by a
nonmagnetic form for mechanical purposes.

C) Grounded baluns and hybrids

Grounding terminals 1,5 and 10 results in the output being bal-
anced to ground. The top of Ry is at +V>2 and the bottom at —V2. From
Fig 1-2, it can be seen that the input and output voltages on the top
transmission line are the same when the line is “flat” (Zp = Ry, / 2). Thus,
the top windings have no potential gradients from input to output.
Further, the bottom two windings have negative gradients of —V2. This
is just the opposite of the unun case, where the bottom transmission line
had the zero potential gradient and the top transmission line a positive
+V> gradient. If two cores are used, the top core in Fig 1-2 plays a
mechanical role only, since the low-frequency response is now deter-
mined by the inductive reactances of windings 1-2 and 3-4. The low-
and high-frequency responses are unaffected when a balancing resistor
is connected between terminals 9 and 10, as in the symmetrical hybrid
case. As in the unun case, if both transmission lines are wound on one
toroid, an extra 1:1 balun, in series on the low-impedance side, would
be needed for isolation (the ground at terminal 1,5 is, of course,
removed).

Sec 2.4 The Rod v the Toroid

What is the feasibility of using rods in place of toroids for
broadband transformers? In many cases, because of their simpler form,
rods are mechanically preferable. However, the inductance of a rod is
more difficult to calculate; much of the magnetic path is in air. There-
fore, little quantitative information has previously been available on
their use. This section presents experimental results that show rods also

2-6 Chapter 2
