high-frequency response is directly related to the ratio of the length of
the coil to its diameter. In other words, the smallest diameter rods gave
both the lowest characteristic impedance and the highest frequency
response at the 12.5:50-Q impedance level. Fig 3-4 shows the results of
the characteristic impedance measured on rods of varying diameters
with closely wound transmission lines of no. 14 wire.

Another interesting comparison between Ruthroff’s theory and
experiment is shown in Fig 3-5. Here, measurements were made on the
same transformer (of Fig 3-2) at the optimum impedance level (100:25-Q)
beyond where the transmission line is a half-wavelength. These data
indicate that considerable parasitic coupling exists, introducing a lead-
ing component that subtracts from the lagging voltage of a transmission
line. This is particularly true at 300 MHz, where an infinite loss should
occur instead of the peak, which is only 7 dB down.

Pitzalis and Couse have shown that experiment and theory agree
quite well for a 4:1 transformer at the 100:25-Q level when using a
coiled 50-Q cable (ref 12).! I repeated this experiment and the data is
presented in Fig 3-6. The results show that the 50-Q cable is optimum
for a 100:25-Q transformer and that the agreement between theory and
experiment is considerably better than with a tightly wound transformer.

A further example of this phenomenon is shown in Fig 3-7. The
results presented are for two transformers operating at their optimized
impedance levels for the types of windings used. The 40:10-Q trans-
former used %4-inch stripline (see Chapter 4) and the 200:50-Q trans-
former used no. 18 insulated wire. Fig 3-8 shows the two transformers.
Each transformer has the same length of winding and the same number
of turns, seven. As expected, the low-frequency performance of the
stripline transformer was better by a factor of five. Its series reactance,
because of the coiled form of the winding, had to be greater than 10 Q
instead of 50 Q. But, interestingly, the high-frequency performance of
the stripline transformer was only 70% of that of the transformer using
no. 18 wire.

Sec 3.3 To Twist or Not to Twist

The discrepancies noted in Sec 3.2 regarding the optimum char-
acteristic impedance and the expected high-frequency performance
prompted me to perform further experimental investigations. I com-

‘Each reference in this chapter can be found in Chapter 15.

High-Frequency Characterization 3-7
