gives the values of Poy / Pavailable aS a function of line length for values
of R_/Rg ranging from one to infinity. The table assumes that the
characteristic impedance of the line is always adjusted to the relation-
ship Zo = VRgR_. Notice from the table that the perfect matches for
ratios greater the 4:1 require considerably longer transmission lines. For
example, a 16:1 transformer requires a length of 0.227 A. This is a very
long length of transmission line, even at 30 MHz. It certainly is not
realizable on a conventional core. However, transformers in the
100-MHz region can utilize this technique.

Sec 5.4 Variable Characteristic Impedance Lines

The use of tapered lines in wide-band matching at very high
frequencies is well known (ref 28). Roy showed analytically that it is
possible to achieve matching at the lower frequencies of a 4:1 trans-
former over a wider band than is possible by using a uniform line (refs
23, 24). He considered the exponential line:

Ze(x) = Zoe?! (Eq 5-4)

where
Zo = the characteristic impedance at x = 0
1 = the taper parameter (near unity in most cases)
| = the length of the transmission line.

Since tapering can best be achieved in microstrip form, this
interesting technique is best left to the professional with sophisticated
resources. To date, no experimental data have been made available.

Irish approached the wide-band matching problem by using a
transmission line that varied as a step-function along the length of the
line (ref 25). The analysis he presented was for a line of two sections
with differing characteristic impedances. The dimensions of the bifilar
winding were changed midway along its length. Analytically he showed
an extension by about 30% of the useful bandwidth was possible. Again,
no experimental data was given.

Sec5.5 Series Transformers

At high impedance levels, when R, is greater than 300 Q, diffi-
culties arise in trying to obtain a characteristic impedance greater than
150 Q (and have enough turns to satisfy the low-frequency require-
ment), which is necessary for maximum high-frequency response. But

Transformer Parameters for High-impedance Applications 5-7
